I would be remiss in
this discussion of
financial technology regulation
to not say a word or
two about the
emergence of RegTech.
The idea behind
RegTech is that it
is actually financial
technology that helps
financial institutions
address regulatory challenges
and facilitates the delivery of
and the ability of
these institutions to comply
with existing regulatory
requirements.
RegTech was created in order
to address challenges that
arise from compliance in
risk management and things
like data reporting,
and is especially useful for
nascent financial firms who
don't yet have the capacity
internally to be able to
create these sorts of
technologies for their own use.
Some examples of
RegTech providers
include companies like Suade,
a software platform that allows
financial institutions to
process granular data and
output the required regulatory,
calculations risks and reports
that financial regulators demand.
Another example is
RegTech provider called Trulioo,
which provides
ID verification for
companies like PayPal,
Stripe, and Amazon,
and helps them comply with
new know-your-customer
and anti-money
laundering rules that have
become of significant
importance in
a significant regulatory burden
for these institutions,
particularly in the aftermath
of the financial crisis.
Looking forward, as we
think of the future of
financial technology and
financial technology
regulation specifically,
it's important for us to
think about whether we
should regulate FinTech as
an industry in and
of itself or whether
FinTech comprises
a series of industries
depending on whether it involves
traditional financial
services providers
doing new things,
new financial services providers
doing traditional things,
or is totally new means of
transacting and means of
exchange that didn't exist in
the financial system previously.
It's also important
that we be aware
that the kinds of
choices we make about
regulation in this industry
are inevitably going to impact
the decisions the
entrepreneurs make with
respect to where they locate
and where they innovate,
the ability of consumers
to be protected
from new risks that
emerge in these markets,
and the ability of
consumers to be able to
benefit and leverage the power of
new financial technology
to serve them in ways that
existing financial
institutions prior to
this FinTech revolution
were simply unable to.
It's also important for
regulators to bear in
mind that financial regulation,
and particularly financial
technology where
so much of the transacting
happens on the Internet,
which is inherently
a global platform,
would be best served
by regulation
through a singular
global framework.
Of course, this sort of history
of financial regulation doesn't
provide a lot of optimism for
this being the
inevitable outcome.
If anything, the
fact that there are
a myriad financial
regulators even
within the United States suggests
the difficulty of being able to
create a singular framework
for regulation,
but it would be very helpful
both from the perspective
of industry as it
looks to operate across
the world and from the
perspective of consumers as they
look to be protected
no matter where the firm that
provides them financial
services operates.
It'll be helpful
for us to be able
to create technologies and
industries that are really
regulated in a uniform way.
It's also important
for us to bear in
mind that whatever choices
we make with respect
to the regulation of
new financial services providers
and incidentally
whatever choices we make with
respect to the regulation of
traditional financial
services providers
is inevitably going to encourage
the growth of and push out of
the regulated financial
sector activity
that used to exist in this space.
So one concern about over
regulation or one concern
about overly burdensome
regulation in
this setting is that
we are going to
push activity outside of a sector
which we understand and have
some framework for
regulating into sort of
the shadow banking sector where
our ability to manage
risk is much less strong.
So as regulators and interested
audiences in this space,
it's important for us
to understand that when
we trade off in
the context of regulation,
it's not just trading off between
innovation on one side and
consumer protection on the other.
But in fact striking
the right balance not
having overly
cumbersome regulation,
that's going to encourage
activity to fly out of
the regulated sector and
pose a threat to
financial stability,
but one that we don't
have a good handle
on how best to address.